---
# NE METTEZ PAS title: SVP. UTILISEZ main_title: MERCI.
main_title: "Capycast 2"
subtitle:  "Martha Gellhorn"
image: "https://images.hearthis.at/c/r/o/_/uploads/9120740/image_track/2332123/w1400_h1400_q70_m1543663107----cropped_1543663099603.jpg"
date: 2018-12-01T12:18:42+01:00

episode_mp3: "https://hearthis.at/capycec/capycast-2-martha-gellhorn/listen.mp3?s=ZlA"
author: "Capycec"
duration: "2:05:57"
people_link: 
  - name: Capycec
    key: capycec


is_explicit: no
---

<PodcastHeader/>

<!-- ECRIRE LA DESCRIPTION DE L'EPISODE SOUS CETTE LIGNE -->
On parle de la vie de Martha Gellhorn ! Une des premières femmes reporter qui a voyagé partout dans le monde jusqu’à la fin de sa vie. Armée de son magnifique sourire et de son caractère de chien, rien ni personne n’a jamais réussi à la stopper dans sa quête découvrir la vérité par elle-même. A la fois généreuse et autocentrée, sociable et misanthrope, c’est un personnage aux multiples facettes, toujours pleine de surprises et doté d’un humour ravageur qui a passé sa vie à fuir l’ennui et la routine. Et ça donne une bio pas piqué des hannetons !<br>
<br>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<br>
**2:50 Enfance**<br>
It's A Hap Hap Happy Day <br>
Ching Chong - Ones Step - Van Eps Trio<br>
Bert Lown and his Orchestra - When I Take My Sugar To Tea - 1931<br>
<br>
**11:34 Pause Musicale**<br>
Cissie Redgwick - Gimme That Swing<br>
<br>
**14: 48 Paris 1930 **<br>
Les yeux noirs django reinhardt<br>
Benny Goodman Trio - China Boy<br>
Django Reinhardt - Blues (1940)<br>
Mini Pause Musicale Route 66 - Bing Crosby &amp; The Andrews Sisters<br>
Eric Clapton - Blues in A<br>
Sidney Bechet - Summertime<br>
NieR Soundtrack - Yonah (Piano &amp; Strings Version)<br>
**32:06 Citation lu par Clothilde **<br>
[The root of the trouble is the body. Our minds and spirits are comfortable together: and between us we have two bodies, one eager and demanding, the other polite and often kind - but you can’t bully emotion or rather you can’t bully passion… I have no desire for affairs. My body very curiously has no need of that food - not at least now. I am happy with myself, you see. I have enough in me to fill my life. But all my life boils and simmers, stews and burns, because something is asked which I cannot truthfully give.]<br>
<br>
**34:10 Mini Pause musicale**<br>
Golden Gate Quartet - Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen<br>
<br>
**35:40 Enquêtrice pour l’administration Roosevelt**<br>
Sweet Home Chicago <br>
Marc Ribot - Aurora en pekin<br>
**38:31 Dialogues des Raisins de la colère** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ERif97cdMII<br>
[Ma Joad: How am I gonna know about ya, Tommy? Why they could kill ya and I'd never know. They could hurt ya. How am I gonna know?<br>
Tom Joad: Well, maybe it's like Casy says. A fellow ain't got a soul of his own, just little piece of a big soul, the one big soul that belongs to everybody, then...<br>
Ma Joad: Then what, Tom?<br>
Tom Joad: Then it don't matter. I'll be all around in the dark - I'll be everywhere. Wherever you can look - wherever there's a fight, so hungry people can eat, I'll be there. Wherever there's a cop beatin' up a guy, I'll be there. I'll be in the way guys yell when they're mad. I'll be in the way kids laugh when they're hungry and they know supper's ready, and when the people are eatin' the stuff they raise and livin' in the houses they build - I'll be there, too.<br>
Ma Joad: I don't understand it, Tom.<br>
Tom Joad: Me, neither, Ma, but - just somethin' I been thinkin' about.]<br>
Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen - Charlie Haden And Hank Jones-Steal Away<br>
**52:24 Citation tirée du film Hemingway&amp;Gellhorn** https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0423455/?ref_=nv_sr_1<br>
<br>
** 44:26 Pause musicale**<br>
Tape Five - Cool Cat in Town<br>
<br>
**47:53 Key West et rencontre avec Emingway**<br>
SIN COJER LUCHA - ISRAEL KANTOR<br>
Citation tirée du film L'adieu aux armes : https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0050379/?ref_=fn_al_tt_2<br>
[You’re brave. Nothing ever happens to the braves]<br>
<br>
**51:50 La Guerre d’Espagne 1937**<br>
Interview de Malraux : http://www.ina.fr/video/I06096151/andre-malraux-et-la-fraternite-en-espagne-video.html<br>
No pasarán<br>
Ay Carmela - Viva la Quinta Brigada - Rolando Alarcon<br>
Canciones de la Guerra Civil Española   Si me quieres escribir<br>
**1:03:24 Citation lue par Clothile**<br>
[Nothing in my life has so affected my thinking as the losing of that war. It is, very banally, like the death of all loved things and it is as if a country that you had worshipped was suddenly blackened with fire and later swallowed in an earthquake… Spain has really broken my heart.]<br>
<br>
**1:04:19 Pause musicale**<br>
Chanson plus Bifluorée - Quand un Soldat<br>
<br>
**1:05:55 Cuba, mariage et Chine : 1939 - 1941**<br>
Buena Vista Social Club - Pueblo Nuevo<br>
La chevauchée des Walkyries<br>
**1:08:56 Citation lue par Clothilde**<br>
[I don’t want to be elected or anything or mentioned in the papers, I just want to be where history is happening, to see it, to know about it for myself, to do whatever small goofy usually futile thing I can do in order to make some minor events easier for unknown people.]<br>
Beautiful Chinese Music - Cherry Blossoms<br>
Marc Ribot Y Los Cubanos Postizos - No Me Llores Mas<br>
007  James Bond  Theme<br>
<br>
**1:14:58 2eme Guerre Mondiale**<br>
Pirates des Caraïbes - Musique complète<br>
Extrait d'interview de Martha Gellhorn : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=INlkjzTVkno&amp;t=22s<br>
[If nobody puts it down on the record, anywhere, then the monsters win totally. It must be someplace on the record, because otherwise they could get by with anything. Does it stop anything ? I have no feeling that everything I’ve done has been of any use. But at least, it is better than silence, because if you are silent, then they can rewrite it anyway they want, they can make it look great afterward. So there is a point on the record.]<br>
Tribal Jungle Music - Amazon Princess<br>
Fort Condor - Final Fantasy VII Music Extended<br>
Speed Theme<br>
**1:25:06 Pause Musicale** Alice Francis- Shoot Him down 2013!!! (Break his neck, neck, neck, neck)<br>
Medal of Honor Airborne - Theme Song<br>
Song For Bob- Nick Cave &amp; Warren Ellis.mp3<br>
**1:30:57 Citation lue par Clothilde **<br>
[Behind the barbed wire and the electric fence, the skeletons sat in the sun and searched themselves for lice. They have no age and no faces; they all look alike and like nothing you will ever see, if you are lucky.]<br>
Duke Ellington - Harlem Nocturne<br>
**Citation tirée du film Hemingway&amp;Gellhorn**n https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0423455/?ref_=nv_sr_1<br>
 [I do not see myself as a footnote of someone’s else’s life]<br>
<br>
**1:34:05 Après la guerre**<br>
[Jingle Sujet Mega Sensible]<br>
25 most famous israeli folk songs 02<br>
Musica  Ranchera Con Armonica<br>
Marc Ribot y los Cubanos postizos - Esclavo Triste<br>
Jimmy Shand and His Band - Bluebell Polka (1955)<br>
<br>
**1:42:48 Pause Musicale**<br>
Naomi Wachira - (African Girl) <br>
<br>
**1:46:50 Afrique et Londres **<br>
Fatoumata Diawara - Kanou<br>
**1:52:06 Citation lue par Clothilde**<br>
[People cannot survive our bombs. We are uprooting the people from the lovely land where they have lived for generations; and the uprooted are given not bread but stone. Is this an honorable way for a great nation to fight a war 8,000 miles from its safe homeland?]<br>
25 most famous israeli folk songs<br>
<br>
**1:55:17 Londres, fin de vie**<br>
NieR Soundtrack - The Prestigious Mask<br>
Cowboy Bebop OST 1 - Waltz for Zizi<br>
Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen - Charlie Haden And Hank Jones-Steal Away<br>
**2: Extrait d'interview de Martha Gellhorn**<br>
[I think stupidity is original sin, and we’ve all got it. And I’m beggening to think that who’s got it the worst is those who lead us. And I’m talking about stupidity of feeling, as well as stupidity of thinking. Stupidity of feeling way be the most dangerous one, so, they, ho lead us, who are in a position of great power - and being the more powerful seems to be the more stupid than we are - they trout out their stupidities and we follow. We either follow or we don’t follow. Those who follow the cruel stupidity are the tigers and those who allowed themself to be led to the slaughterhouse are the sheep, but the stupidity starts at the top and we all get it, sort of by osmosis. I used to think that people were responsible for their leaders, I don’t anymore. ]<br>


