---
# NE METTEZ PAS title: SVP. UTILISEZ main_title: MERCI.
main_title: "Capycast 2"
subtitle:  "Martha Gellhorn"
image: "https://images.hearthis.at/c/r/o/_/uploads/9120740/image_track/2332123/w1400_h1400_q70_m1543663107----cropped_1543663099603.jpg"
date: 2018-12-01

episode_mp3: "https://hearthis.at/capycec/capycast-2-martha-gellhorn/listen.mp3?s=ZlA"
author: "Capycec"
duration: "0"
people_link: 
  - name: Capycec
    key: capycec


is_explicit: no
---

<PodcastHeader/>

<!-- ECRIRE LA DESCRIPTION DE L'EPISODE SOUS CETTE LIGNE -->
On parle de la vie de Martha Gellhorn ! Une des premières femmes reporter qui a voyagé partout dans le monde jusqu’à la fin de sa vie. Armée de son magnifique sourire et de son caractère de chien, rien ni personne n’a jamais réussi à la stopper dans sa quête découvrir la vérité par elle-même. A la fois généreuse et autocentrée, sociable et misanthrope, c’est un personnage aux multiples facettes, toujours pleine de surprises et doté d’un humour ravageur qui a passé sa vie à fuir l’ennui et la routine. Et ça donne une bio pas piqué des hannetons !<br><br>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<br>**2:50 Enfance**<br>It's A Hap Hap Happy Day <br>Ching Chong - Ones Step - Van Eps Trio<br>Bert Lown and his Orchestra - When I Take My Sugar To Tea - 1931<br><br>**11:34 Pause Musicale**<br>Cissie Redgwick - Gimme That Swing<br><br>**14: 48 Paris 1930 **<br>Les yeux noirs django reinhardt<br>Benny Goodman Trio - China Boy<br>Django Reinhardt - Blues (1940)<br>Mini Pause Musicale Route 66 - Bing Crosby &amp; The Andrews Sisters<br>Eric Clapton - Blues in A<br>Sidney Bechet - Summertime<br>NieR Soundtrack - Yonah (Piano &amp; Strings Version)<br>**32:06 Citation lu par Clothilde **<br>[The root of the trouble is the body. Our minds and spirits are comfortable together: and between us we have two bodies, one eager and demanding, the other polite and often kind - but you can’t bully emotion or rather you can’t bully passion… I have no desire for affairs. My body very curiously has no need of that food - not at least now. I am happy with myself, you see. I have enough in me to fill my life. But all my life boils and simmers, stews and burns, because something is asked which I cannot truthfully give.]<br><br>**34:10 Mini Pause musicale**<br>Golden Gate Quartet - Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen<br><br>**35:40 Enquêtrice pour l’administration Roosevelt**<br>Sweet Home Chicago <br>Marc Ribot - Aurora en pekin<br>**38:31 Dialogues des Raisins de la colère** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ERif97cdMII<br>[Ma Joad: How am I gonna know about ya, Tommy? Why they could kill ya and I'd never know. They could hurt ya. How am I gonna know?<br>Tom Joad: Well, maybe it's like Casy says. A fellow ain't got a soul of his own, just little piece of a big soul, the one big soul that belongs to everybody, then...<br>Ma Joad: Then what, Tom?<br>Tom Joad: Then it don't matter. I'll be all around in the dark - I'll be everywhere. Wherever you can look - wherever there's a fight, so hungry people can eat, I'll be there. Wherever there's a cop beatin' up a guy, I'll be there. I'll be in the way guys yell when they're mad. I'll be in the way kids laugh when they're hungry and they know supper's ready, and when the people are eatin' the stuff they raise and livin' in the houses they build - I'll be there, too.<br>Ma Joad: I don't understand it, Tom.<br>Tom Joad: Me, neither, Ma, but - just somethin' I been thinkin' about.]<br>Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen - Charlie Haden And Hank Jones-Steal Away<br>**52:24 Citation tirée du film Hemingway&amp;Gellhorn** https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0423455/?ref_=nv_sr_1<br><br>** 44:26 Pause musicale**<br>Tape Five - Cool Cat in Town<br><br>**47:53 Key West et rencontre avec Emingway**<br>SIN COJER LUCHA - ISRAEL KANTOR<br>Citation tirée du film L'adieu aux armes : https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0050379/?ref_=fn_al_tt_2<br>[You’re brave. Nothing ever happens to the braves]<br><br>**51:50 La Guerre d’Espagne 1937**<br>Interview de Malraux : http://www.ina.fr/video/I06096151/andre-malraux-et-la-fraternite-en-espagne-video.html<br>No pasarán<br>Ay Carmela - Viva la Quinta Brigada - Rolando Alarcon<br>Canciones de la Guerra Civil Española   Si me quieres escribir<br>**1:03:24 Citation lue par Clothile**<br>[Nothing in my life has so affected my thinking as the losing of that war. It is, very banally, like the death of all loved things and it is as if a country that you had worshipped was suddenly blackened with fire and later swallowed in an earthquake… Spain has really broken my heart.]<br><br>**1:04

